Beaver native Windows x64 - migration preview

Start Beaver.exe on Windows x64 with Microsoft WebView2 Evergreen Runtime
and Microsoft Visual C++ v14 Redistributable (x64).
Alternatively run Start-Beaver.ps1 to check the registered WebView2 runtime
and the required Visual C++ runtime DLL files first.
If PowerShell script execution is restricted, install the runtime manually
and launch Beaver.exe. Do not weaken your system execution policy.

WebView2 is an external shared system dependency, not bundled here.
Download the Evergreen Runtime from Microsoft:
https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/
For offline systems, obtain Microsoft's x64 Evergreen Standalone Installer
on a connected machine and install it before launching Beaver.
Deployment reference:
https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/distribution
The launcher only checks registration and does not download or install software.
A registered but damaged runtime may still need repair by its installer.

The current PE imports VCRUNTIME140.dll and VCRUNTIME140_1.dll. These are
external prerequisites, not hidden files included in this application.
Microsoft Visual C++ x64 installer: https://aka.ms/vc14/vc_redist.x64.exe
Reference: https://learn.microsoft.com/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist
Use Microsoft's installer; do not download individual DLLs from other sites.
The launcher checks presence, not runtime integrity or version compatibility.

This directory contains one application executable. UI, catalogs, templates,
skills and media MCP are embedded; media mode uses Beaver.exe --media-mcp.
No Electron, Node backend or separate beaver-media executable is included.
Codex, Godot, Blender and optional Node/MCP tools are external development
tools installed separately. They can occupy substantially more disk space
than Beaver. Generated games, caches and user data are also separate.

Code structure rules ship inside this executable and are supplied automatically
to Codex for both new and resumed game tasks. Prefer 100-250 effective code lines
per source file. Changed files above 500 need a split or a documented 501-700
line exception; changed files above 700 must be split. Blank and comment-only
lines do not count. Untouched historical code may remain as tracked debt.
Codex can run the read-only beaver_check_code_structure tool before finishing.
Beaver checks captured source changes again before merging, including retries.
Rejected output remains in the task workspace; continue the task to correct it.
No personal AGENTS.md, developer checkout or Hook installation is required.
For an independent source audit, run:
Beaver.exe --check-code-structure --root "GAME_DIRECTORY" --json "REPORT.json"
This standalone audit has no task baseline and reports all oversized sources.

Keep README.txt, THIRD-PARTY.json and licenses with this distribution.
RELEASE.json lists payload hashes; the 50,000,000 byte limit includes the
manifest, notices and launcher. Hash verification does not prove runtime
behavior or authenticity. This preview is unsigned and is not an installer.
No automatic update, uninstall, signature or clean-machine acceptance is claimed.

The native preview uses its own application data directory. Do not point it
at an Electron data directory or run both hosts on the same user data.
Complete data migration and rollback acceptance is still pending.
Closing the window hides Beaver; use the tray menu to exit.

Optional local business API (native integration preview):
Set BEAVER_API_TOKEN to a random 32..256 character secret using ASCII letters,
digits, '_' or '-'. Set BEAVER_API_PORT if the default 4319 is unavailable.
The desktop then binds 127.0.0.1 only. Without a token no listener is opened.
GET /v1/capabilities discovers 44 operations and input schemas.
POST /v1/call accepts {"method":"state","input":{}}.
Both endpoints require Authorization: Bearer <token>; browser origins are denied.
The token grants full local-owner business access, not project-scoped permissions.
Use Beaver.exe --business-mcp with the same token/port environment for stdio MCP.
Start the desktop first. The bridge operates on that host's existing live state.
Do not automatically retry writes after timeouts: accepted calls may continue.
No remote API, OAuth, durable deduplication or generic job subscription is claimed.
Asset import takes explicit paths; template import takes an explicit archive path.

Offline full recovery archive (Windows):
Beaver.exe --migration-bundle create "OLD_APP_DATA" "NEW_BACKUP_DIRECTORY"
Beaver.exe --migration-bundle verify "BACKUP_DIRECTORY"
Beaver.exe --migration-bundle restore "BACKUP_DIRECTORY" "NEW_RECOVERY_DIRECTORY"
Beaver.exe --migration-bundle prepare-import "BACKUP_DIRECTORY" "NEW_IMPORT_DIRECTORY"
Beaver.exe --migration-bundle activate-import "BACKUP_DIRECTORY" "PREPARED_DIRECTORY" ["TOOL_PATHS_JSON"]

Exit Beaver and stop all project/workspace writers before creating a backup.
The archive includes the application data and every registered Godot project,
including .git, .godot and empty directories. Missing projects, overlapping
roots, links and changed files are rejected. Destination parents must exist;
destinations must be new and outside all source directories. Failed candidates
are retained for inspection and are never silently overwritten.

Restore creates raw data/project copies and RESTORE.json with a relocation map.
It DOES NOT rewrite absolute paths, convert credentials, recover tasks or activate
the new host. The .beaver-migration-pending marker blocks accidental desktop
startup on the recovery directory or its descendants. Do not remove it manually.
This recovery stage is available from the single EXE without initializing the UI.
The original directories and encrypted values remain unchanged. File hashes are
integrity checks, not signatures, permission backups or power-loss guarantees.

prepare-import restores into a NEW directory, locks the copied data, and converts
known project/workspace/managed-tool paths and Windows credentials in one database
transaction. It then recovers file journals against the copied projects before
interrupting old running/queued tasks. Electron credentials require the matching
Local State inside the archived application data and the original Windows user.
Original ciphertext is retained in secret_backup. Unreadable credentials or
unmanaged task workspaces fail without committing path or credential changes.
External tools are not executed; old detection results must be checked again.

IMPORT.json records successful preparation, but ready_to_activate remains false.
The pending marker remains until explicit activate-import succeeds.
Opaque session files and thread IDs are preserved, not rewritten or discarded.
If journal recovery fails after conversion, the copied directory may contain
partial recovery work; no IMPORT.json is emitted and the original archive remains
untouched. Retry from the archive into another NEW directory after investigation.

Preparation also rebases verified path columns in copied Codex state_N.sqlite
indexes. Unknown schemas or missing indexed history fail closed. JSONL history
is not rewritten. This is tested with real Codex 0.153.4 and a local fixture
Responses API; it is not a claim about live model quality or all Codex versions.
Codex index transactions are separate from the Beaver entity transaction.

activate-import requires the same intact backup and an unmoved prepared copy.
It rechecks project/workspace ownership, Codex history paths, credentials and
unfinished journals, then runs actual destination tool version probes. Codex
and Godot are required; enabled Godot MCP also requires Node. Optional tool
failures remain visible. TOOL_PATHS_JSON, if supplied, is a JSON object containing
codex, godot, blender and node string paths. No tools are downloaded or installed.
Success writes ACTIVATION.json and removes pending. It does not change the default
data directory or start a task. To open the activated copy in PowerShell:
$env:BEAVER_DATA_DIR = "PREPARED_DIRECTORY\data"
.\Beaver.exe
Keep the original backup. Import UI and full rollback acceptance remain pending.

THIRD-PARTY.json includes a conservative superset of Windows Cargo packages
(including build dependencies) plus bundled JavaScript dependencies. It records
versions, declared licenses and corresponding upstream license texts. Missing
crate license files are obtained from the package's pinned upstream commit;
selectors uses Mozilla's official MPL 2.0 text and links its exact source.
Rust standard-library copyright and license files are also included.
This inventory is not a claim that all listed packages run as separate programs.
